Mandag 11/6-07
Tilstede: Pål Sannes, Øystein Lie, Bjørn Nordin, Børge Moe, Vegard Bønes,
Paul Eglitis, Knut Johansen, Lars Andresen, Per-Ove Kjensli (referent)

Discussion of items in the "TODO-liste", specially with respect to the start
of QC2-development, but also to select items to be in focus on short term.

Paul is going to start QC2-ROM development. It deals with distribution of
accumulated precipitation to RR_24 values, Spatial QC and interpolation. Dip
test for hourly data is waiting to be solved.

Generally: QC2 should be made as a separate daemon, to avoid interactions
with Qabase.

There may be several implications to the Kvalobs system from QC2, to be
handled during development.

ITEMS WITH HIGH PRIORITY as starting tasks for Paul and Bjørn (reference to
TODO-priority number): 

   2. Observations from Manual Weather Stations (MWS) (typeid=1,306,308) may
be rejected during decoding - and the data are stored in rejectdecode table.
A warning (email?) should be given to IT-operators to initiate resending of
data from the observer. (Paul, Bjørn)

   4. Handling and flags of highly suspicious data, for very important data.
Priority elements are temperature and precipitation. Lars and Paul will make
a specification (covering the user needs): Important to reject highly
suspicious data, and to trig a checking action at VA (Metdiv) in near real
time. A specification of flag-criteria for trigging. Implementation of a
warning system and handling reactions at VA. (Paul, Lars, Bjørn)

NEW ITEMS for the TODO-list:

 6. Decoding of new SMS-formats, 20 and 42. Øystein sends specification of
SMS-42 to Børge. To be implemented soon. (Børge)

 5. The program "smsedit" should take care of all MWS (SMS formats) like
(306?),308. The purpose is to be able to resend observations as original
data into Kvalobs - looking at SMS-files and rejectdecode table. It works
well for 302. Reference to item 20 "Messages with error in time stamp".
Reference to email from Obsdiv, Margareth Moe. (Vegard)

 7. Enhancement of Kvalobs Log. The log should cover several days, and the
source code in the log should be removed. the log should be placed on a
separate partition. (Børge)

**** Service routines for the SMS-servers. Is the routines OK today, do the
operators get the necessary warnings? Quite often we have delays in
dataflow, input, to Kvalobs. (Øystein, Ola)

OBS_PGM related items (11,16,23):

We have agreed on several enhancements of the obs_pgm table, although there
are discussions about topics linked to the function of the table. We need an
summary of the discussion so far. (Pål)

We agreed on these actions:

  11. Add a Boolean column in obs_pgm like "local_obstime", true for typeid
402. Adjust the "fill in missing data function" to use this information to
set summer/winter observation time (UTC) according to dates of time-shift
(dates stored in a separate table). Also to be used in QC2. Column should be
added as soon as possible. (Børge) To be implemented in the missing data
function before October - specification (Pål, Bjørn), Implementation (?).

  16. Add a date column in obs_pgm "to_time", to take care of history in
observation program. To be used in QC2. Column should be added as soon as
possible. (Børge) 
Adjust the "fill in missing data function" to use this information to avoid
garbage in the data table. As soon as possible. (Børge)

  23. Add a Boolean column like "unreliable", to take care of
pre-disqualification of observations. The column should be updated
automatically from STINFOSYS by metadata updates in near real time. Should
be operated by Helpdesk. Cooperation with the STINFOSYS-project. (Pål,
Terje)


OTHER COMMENTS AND ACTIONS:

   1. Update of single elements should not cause update by missing values of
other elements. To be solved soon. (Børge, Vegard)

   9. Need to check out impacts (if any) of QC2-ROM when correcting
aggregated values. 

  12. 9999-data from AWS. Proposal: To store 9999-data as original values,
and use the flag fmis. Specification needs to be worked out. (Pål, Lars)

18, 20, 25. Need to save observations that are updated by reinput of
original data. Specification work to be done: How should we use, or draw
attention to, the backup data? Just in case we get suspicious, or more
objective criteria? (?,?).

  29. The communication between Qabase and the scripts should be extended to
take care of details about related elements. Discussion about the test
QC1-2-100: do we need more details from this routine? Further discussions
and also status about the complex routine QC1-2-100. (Bjørn, Øystein, Lars)

13, 30. Autoobs and Comobs decoder should be separated decoders to give more
flexible software. This may also affect the decoding problem of elements
like snow depth and snow cover (?). "No snow on ground" is represented in
different ways in the dataflow formats, including "empty elements". Perhaps
the decoders should use the obs_pgm to know if the value should be presented
like "-1" or not. Check out status of today (Per-Ove, Bjørn, Lars) and
eventually specify what to be done.

  17. Backup-delete monthly routine. Kvalobs - Histkvalobs.
The monthly delete routine in Kvalobs should delete the complete month as
soon as it is transferred to backup files and imported into Histkvalobs. To
avoid available duplicate data. To be solved soon. (Børge)
